### H2Q-MC-LZZT Research Study

[H2Q-MC-LZZT](ResearchStudy-H2Q-MC-LZZT-ResearchStudy.html) was a study to evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of the Xanomeline Transdermal Therapeutic System (TTS) in Patients with Mild to Moderate Alzheimer’s Disease.  It was carried out by [Eli-Lilly and Company](Organization-EliLillyAndCompany.html).  It is a commonly used sample study that features regularly in Clinical Research data modelling exercises so is advantageous for providing realistic anonymised datasets.

#### Example Resources
* [ResearchStudySoa/H2Q-MC-LZZT-ResearchStudy](ResearchStudy-H2Q-MC-LZZT-ResearchStudy.html)
* [Organization/EliLillyAndCompany](Organization-EliLillyAndCompany.html)

### H2Q-MC-LZZT Study Plan

Patients with probable mild to moderate AD will be studied in a randomized, double-blind, parallel (3 arm), placebo-controlled trial of 26 weeks duration. The study will be conducted on an outpatient basis. Approximately 300 patients will be enrolled.

Following informed consent, patients will be screened at [Visit 1](PlanDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-1.html). At screening, patients will undergo complete neuropsychiatric assessment, psychometric testing, and general medical assessment (including medical history, pre-existing conditions, physical examination). In addition, [vital signs](ActivityDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Vital-Signs-Temperature.html), temperature, medication history, electrocardiogram (ECG), chest x-ray, and safety laboratories will be obtained. During the screening visit, patients will wear a placebo TTS to determine willingness and ability to comply with transdermal administration procedures. If patients have not had central nervous system (CNS) imaging in the previous 12 months, a computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan will be obtained. If patients are insulin dependent diabetics, a hemoglobin A1c will be obtained. Screening exams and procedures may be performed after [Visit 1](PlanDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-1.html); however, their results must be completed and available prior to randomization. The screening process should occur within 2 weeks of randomization (Visit 3 of the study).

Patients who meet enrollment criteria from [Visit 1](PlanDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-1.html) will proceed to Visit 2 at which time they will undergo a 24-hour Ambulatory ECG. At [Visit 3](PlanDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-3.html) the Ambulatory ECG will be removed and patients will be randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms. The treatment arms will include a placebo arm, a low-dose xanomeline arm (50 cm2 TTS Formulation E, 54 mg xanomeline), and a high-dose xanomeline arm (75 cm2 TTS Formulation E, 81 mg xanomeline). All patients receiving xanomeline will be started at 50 cm2 TTS Formulation E. For the first 8 weeks of treatment, patients will be assessed at clinic visits every 2 weeks and, thereafter, at clinic visits every 4 weeks. Patients who discontinue prior to Visit 12 (Week 24) will be brought back for full efficacy assessments at or near to 24 weeks, whenever possible.

A Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), chaired by an external cardiologist, will meet after 75, 150, 225, and 300 patients have completed 1 month of treatment. The DSMB will review cardiovascular findings to decide if discontinuation of the study or any treatment arm is appropriate, if additional cardiovascular monitoring is required, if further cardiovascular monitoring is unnecessary, or if adjustment of dose within a treatment arm (or arms) is appropriate.

At Visits [3](PlanDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-3.html), 8, 10, and 12, efficacy instruments (ADAS-Cog, CIBIC+, and DAD) will be administered. NPI-X will be administered at 2-week intervals either at clinic visits or via a telephone interview. Vital signs, temperature, and an assessment of adverse events will be obtained at all clinic visits. An electrocardiogram (ECG), and chemistry/hematology safety labs will be obtained at Visits 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13. Urinalysis will be done at Visits 4, 9, and 12. Use of concomitant medications will be collected at Visits [3](PlanDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-3.html), 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13. Plasma levels of xanomeline and metabolites will be obtained at Visits [3](PlanDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-3.html), 4, 5, 7, 9, and 11. At Visits [3](PlanDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-3.html), 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12, medications will be dispensed to the patients.

Visits [1](PlanDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-1.html) through 13 should be scheduled relative to Visit [3](PlanDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-3.html) (Week 0 - randomization). Visits 4, 5, 7, 8, and 13 should occur within 3 days of their scheduled date. Visits 9, 10, 11, and 12 should occur within 4 days of their scheduled date. At Visit 13 patients will be given the option to enter the open-label extension phase (see Section 3.10.3. Study Extensions).

#### Example Resources 
* Study Plan - [StudyProtocolSoa/H2Q-MC-LZZT-ProtocolDesign](PlanDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-ProtocolDesign.html)
* Visit 1 - [StudyVisitSoa/H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-1](PlanDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-1.html)
* Visit 3 - [StudyVisitSoa/H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-3](PlanDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Study-Visit-3.html)
* Vital Signs/Temperature - [StudyActivitySoa/H2Q-MC-LZZT-Vital-Signs-Temperature](ActivityDefinition-H2Q-MC-LZZT-Vital-Signs-Temperature.html)
